---
layout: page
title: Workshop Preparation Timeline
permalink: /todo2023/
---
This file details the steps taken to prepare for the 2023 Workshop on Molecular Evolution.

## Table of contents

* [Timeline](timeline)
* [MBL People](mbl-people)
* [Virtual Machines](virtual-machines)

## Timeline

| Approximate date | Description                                                                   |
| :--------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| October          | Submit ACCESS application for virtual machines                                |
| November         |                                                                               |
| December         |                                                                               |
| January          |                                                                               |
| February         |                                                                               |
| March            |                                                                               |
| April 7          | Participant names to Paul to put on web site and create badges                |
| April 13         | Housing sends out confirmation emails (get faculty to confirm)                |
| April 21         | Director reminds faculty with tutorials to make updated versions for TAs to test |
| April 21         | Set up template virtual machine, clone VMs for TAs and directors              |
| May 15           | Director sends [Pre Workshop Notice](pre-workshop-notice) to all participants |
| May 20           | Fire up all participant and faculty VMs                                       |
| May 20           | Write to [Evie Gomes](mailto:egomes@mbl.edu) to arrange time to pick up the [coolers](coolers) | May 26           | [Coolers](coolers), [Course Assistant](course-assistent)                      |
| May 27           | Day of the opening reception workshop                                         |
| June             |                                                                               |

## MBL People

### [Education](https://www.mbl.edu/education/contact-education-staff)

| Name            | Title                                          | Email               |
| :-------------- | :--------------------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| Cheri Gherst    | Program Manager of Advanced Training Courses   | cgherst@mbl.edu     |
| Sung Bin Park   | Advanced Research Training Student Coordinator | spark@mbl.edu       |
| Linda Hyman     | Director of Education                          | lhyman@mbl.edu      |
| Jenn Martin     | Education Budget Analyst                       | jmartin@mbl.edu     |
| Maia Theophanis | Lab Operations Manager                         | mtheophanis@mbl.edu |

### [Health and Safety](https://www.mbl.edu/research/health-safety/contact-ehs-staff)

| Name            | Title                                          | Email               |
| :-------------- | :--------------------------------------------- | :------------------ |
| Eric H. Jensen  | Environmental Health and Safety Manager        | ejensen@mbl.edu     |

### [Human Resources](https://www.mbl.edu/about/careers-internships/contact-hr)
* Ann Egan (Human Resources Director): aegan@mbl.edu
* Ann Sweck (Senior HR Generalist): asweck@mbl.edu

### [Conferences](https://www.mbl.edu/events/conferences/contact-conference-staff)
* Paul Anderson (Assistant Manager of Conferences): panderson@mbl.edu

### [Josephine Bay Paul Center](https://www.mbl.edu/research/research-centers/josephine-bay-paul-center/bay-paul-center-faculty-and-staff)
* Evie Gomes (Senior Center Coordinator): egomes@mbl.edu


## Virtual Machines

See [Jetstream2 Setup Notes]({{ site.baseurl }}/jetstream2023/) for details

## Admissions

## Catering

## Venues

## Course Assistent

The undergraduate course assistent needs to bring a **valid passport** to MBL in order to be allowed to obtain money. It can't be emphasized enough how important this is! In 2019 the course assistant had to get their birth certificate shipped to MBL (very expensive for next day service), and in 2023 the course assistant had a passport but it had expired (fortunately they had a social security card that was able to suffice).

Cheri Gherst said this about the 2023 course assistant: "Elena is all set with her hiring paperwork and will need to bring her I-9 doucment(s). She will have received instructions from HR. You are correct that a passport is one-stop shopping on this and if she doesn’t have one, she can bring two other forms of ID which are spelled out on the information she was sent."

The course assistant should arrive the day before the workshop or at least early on the day of the reception in order to fill out paperwork, get the first check, cash the check, and go shopping in Falmouth.

## Coolers

We use two big coolers from the Bay Paul Center to keep drinks and milk cool. These can be obtains from Evie Gomes (egomes@mbl.edu) in the Bay Paul Center (3rd. floor, Lillie).

## Pre Workshop Notice

Here is the 2023 version. Be sure to send this also to the Course Assistant.

    On May 23, 2023, at 3:40 PM, Peter Beerli <pbeerli@fsu.edu> wrote:

    Dear faculty, TAs, and students:

    Our workshop is fast arriving this Friday,

    1. We have started to use Slack MBL-MOLE-2023 (all of you received an
    invitation -- of you cannot find it, let me know and I resend) Please
    create an introductory slide about yourself in the form of a one-page
    PDF file (with a 4:3 width:height ratio). The slide should include your
    name (preferably in large type), preferred pronouns, institution,
    research interests, non-science interests, email address, and any social
    media handles you wish to share. Upload this slide to the #intro-slide
    channel in the MBL-MOLE-2023 Slack workspace before the first day of the
    workshop. During the first session of the workshop, we will compile all
    the PDFs and display them while you introduce yourself. Several sample
    slides are already available, but we encourage you to use your
    creativity and imagination to make your slide stand out.

    2. Please bring clothing suitable for both warm and cold weather, as
    Woods Hole can be enveloped in a cold mist on some days and sunny and
    warm on others. Additionally, bring rain protection for days when it is
    pouring down rain during your walk between your dorm and Loeb. There is
    a swimming beach only a 5-minute walk from Swope, so bring a swimsuit
    and goggles if you want to take a swim in the ocean before dinner after
    a few hours of phylogenetics and molecular evolution.

    3. We are delighted to hold the workshop in person once again. To ensure
    everyone's safety, MBL will provide a rapid COVID test during our first
    meeting, and we ask that you are careful not to become sick in the week
    leading up to the workshop. While it is not yet clear if MBL still
    requires masks indoors, please bring and be prepared to use face masks
    whenever you are indoors. We hope that no one will get sick (from
    COVID19, the flu, or even a cold) while at the workshop this year, but
    the safety of all of us depends on the actions each of us takes.

    4. By now, you should have received your housing assignment (a specific
    building and room) and completed the required online training courses.
    If you haven't done so already, please complete these tasks as soon as
    possible.

    5. Finally, our first meeting will be the opening reception, held on the
    terrace on Swope's east side, overlooking Eel Pond. Laura and I, along
    with our excellent workshop team, Jordan, Kate, Analisa, Kevin, and
    Blake, look forward to meeting all of you there in just a week! If you
    happen to see us on the bus from Logan airport or on the MBL campus
    after you arrive, please feel free to say hello!

    You can find the workshop schedule at https://molevolworkshop.github.io/schedule/.

    Best regards,

    Peter Beerli and Laura Kubatko

    Co-Directors, Workshop on Molecular Evolution


{% comment %}

1. Print out name badges beforehand (find out from Carol Hamel how big they need to be and whether she will provide the holders)

2. Be sure Alyssa brings a passport or birth certificate
TODO list:

o print nametags
o print stickers to go on the backs of nametags with IP address of a VM

Computer labs:

Date          Lab                                 Faculty      Software
Sat, May 28   Intro computer lab                  TAs          bash,...
Sat, May 28   Alignment lab                       TAs          MAFFT,MUSCLE
Sun, May 29   PAUP* lab                           Swofford     PAUP*
Mon, May 30   Gene tree estimation with RevBayes  Brown        RevBayes
Mon, May 30   Divergence time estimation          Heath        RevBayes
Tue, May 31   Network models tutorial             Solis-Lemus  Julia,BUCKy,...
Fri, Jun  3   Species tree lab                    Swofford     PAUP*
Fri, Jun  3   Migrate lab                         Beerli       MIGRATE
Sat, Jun  4   PAML lab                            Bielawski    PAML
Sun, Jun  5   IQ-TREE lab                         Bui          IQ-TREE

dry-erase markers
paper towels

Email message sent to all participants Friday May 20, 2022 (one week before the course begins):

Things you are expected to bring to the Workshop

1. A laptop computer

Things to do if possible before arriving at the Workshop:

1. Watch all four "Primer" phyloseminars by Paul Lewis

Go to http://phyloseminar.org/recorded.html and scroll down to the section labeled Primer

2. Install Tracer and FigTree on the laptop computer you will bring to the Workshop:

Tracer: https://beast.community/tracer
FigTree: https://beast.community/figtree

3. Install Cyberduck

4. Install BBedit (Mac) or Notepad++ (Windows)

5. Windows users: install Git for Windows

{% endcomment %}
